Revamp global illumination documentation (#6216)
godotengine/godot-docs: tutorials/3d/sdfgi.rst

.. _doc_sdfgi:

Signed distance field global illumination (SDFGI)
=================================================

Signed distance field global illumination (SDFGI) is a novel technique available
in Godot 4.0. It provides semi-real-time global illumination that scales to any
world size and works with procedurally generated levels.

SDFGI supports dynamic lights, but *not* dynamic occluders or dynamic emissive surfaces.
Therefore, SDFGI provides better real-time ability than
:ref:`baked lightmaps <doc_baked_lightmaps>`, but worse real-time ability than
:ref:`VoxelGI <doc_using_voxel_gi>`.

From a performance standpoint, SDFGI is one of the most demanding global illumination
techniques in Godot. Like with VoxelGI, there are still many settings available to tweak
its performance requirements at the cost of quality.

.. important::

>     SDFGI is only supported when using the Clustered Forward rendering backend,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    SDFGI is only supported when using the Forward Plus rendering backend,
```

    not the Forward Mobile or Compatibility backends.

.. seealso::

    Not sure if SDFGI is suited to your needs?
    See :ref:`doc_introduction_to_global_illumination`
    for a comparison of GI techniques available in Godot 4.0 and later.

Visual comparison
-----------------

.. figure:: img/gi_none.png
   :alt: SDFGI disabled.

   SDFGI disabled.

.. figure:: img/gi_sdfgi.png
   :alt: SDFGI enabled.

   SDFGI enabled.

Setting up SDFGI
----------------

> In Godot, SDFGI is the easiest global illumination technique to enable:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Godot, SDFGI is the global illumination technique with the fewest required steps to enable:
```

  SDFGI can be toggled off and back on. If neither is done, indirect lighting
  will look incorrect.
- **Dynamic (not supported with SDFGI):** The mesh won't be taken into account in SDFGI generation.
  The mesh will receive indirect lighting from the scene, but it will not
  contribute indirect lighting to the scene.
  *This acts identical to the **Disabled** bake mode when using SDFGI.*

Additionally, there are 3 bake modes available for lights
(DirectionalLight3D, OmniLight3D and SpotLight3D):

- **Disabled:** The light won't be taken into account for VoxelGI baking.
  The light won't contribute indirect lighting to the scene.
- **Static:** The light will be taken into account for VoxelGI baking.
  The light will contribute indirect lighting to the scene. If the light
  is changed in any way after baking, the VoxelGI node must be baked again or indirect lighting
  will look incorrect. If in doubt, use this mode for level lighting.
- **Dynamic (default):** The light won't be taken into account for VoxelGI baking,
  but it will still contribute indirect lighting to the scene in real-time.
  This option is slower compared to **Static**. Only use the **Dynamic** global

>   illumination mode on lights that will change significantly during gameplay.

Reviewer: This looks tailored towards VoxelGI, not SDFGI. Is this a copy-paste error?

Author: Indeed, I've noticed that SDFGI light behaves differently depending on whether the bake mode is Static or Dynamic. The Static mode will indeed prevent updates once the light has entered the cascade.

Performance seems to be mostly identical from my testing, and I'm not sure if quality is actually better with lights in Static mode.
